# Project: Translation Application with WinUI3 and Microsoft Azure Translate

## Overview
This project is a collaboration between a student of KCT Coimbatore and Bosch Global Software Technologies. The aim is to create a Windows application using WinUI3 that can accept a text file, word file, excel file, or raw text string from the user and translate it using Microsoft Azure Translate. The translated file is then generated by the application. 

A Microsoft SQL database is connected to the application to increase the efficiency of translation by storing previous translations. The ultimate goal is to create a database that covers translations for most Automotive Aftermath Manuals. This prototype will eventually be implemented in the industry by creating a web application and hosting it on Microsoft Azure, along with the database for storing translations.

## Development Environment
The application is a C# .NET project with a Windows UI Library (WinUI) 3 user interface (UI), created using Visual Studio.

### Prerequisites
- [Visual Studio Community 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/?cid=learn-onpage-download-cta) (recommended) or Visual Studio 2019.
- [SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms?view=sql-server-ver16)
- Tools for the Windows App SDK. Install using the following command:
```
winget install "Visual Studio Community 2022"  --override "--add Microsoft.VisualStudio.Workload.ManagedDesktop Microsoft.VisualStudio.ComponentGroup.WindowsAppSDK.Cs" -s msstore
```

## Build and Run Steps
1. Clone the repository using `git clone https://github.com/KarthiDreamr/MultiFile_AzureTranslate_WindowsApp.git`.
2. Replace the mock key in the code with your Azure Translate instance key.
3. The `App.xaml` file and code-behind file(s) define an `Application`-derived class that represents your running app. The `MainWindow.xaml` file and code-behind file(s) define a `MainWindow` class that represents the main window displayed by your app. These classes derive from types in the `Microsoft.UI.Xaml` namespace provided by WinUI 3.
4. Press the run button after selecting debugging.
